---
layout: post
title:  "Technology Is Taking Over English Departments"
date:   "2022-10-24"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Reflection
Adam Kirsch writes "Technology is Taking Over English Departments" in the New Republic to  emphasize the important role that digital humanities plays in pulling the humanities into the future. In the article, Kirsch makes sure to distinguish 'distant reading' from close reading. Scholar Franco Moretti coined the term 'distant reading' and Kirsch explains that "distant reading is reading like a computer, not like a human being." An example of distant reading is analyzing and recognizing patterns in the titles of texts rather than reading the body of the text.

The question that Kirsch poses is, what new information is digital humanities really offering us? How is distant reading useful when we can already perform close reading? The author is clearly opinionated on the matter and is opposed to letting the humanities fully give in to the tech tsunami. This article makes me think a lot about the way digitization has changed the humanities, for better and for worse. When Kirsch describes Google Ngram Viewer and how the data is oversimplified and doesn't provide any context. But then again, that's the whole point of distant reading - there's no context! It's just a high level overview of what the scholarship should roughly be about. I don't think there's much point in trying to compare the usefulness of distant reading and close reading because of their completely different purposes. Close reading which, in my opinion, can only <i>really</i> (in a thoughtful manner) be done with human thinking, is meant for deeper analysis and contextual elements. This article as a whole makes me wonder now, what if we put Kirsch's argument to the test? Say that by applying digital humanities to a given project and necessary contextual information, data was processed and analyzed, allowing for the synthesis of a thoughtful idea. Then say that a human scholar formed their own synthesized idea as well on this same project. It'd be interesting to see if a third-party would be able to distinguish which work is the human's and which is aided by digital humanities technology.