---
layout: post
title:  "Visual Literacy and Good Data Visualization"
date:   "2022-12-6"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Reflection
In Ben Dexter Cooley's article called ["Why visual literacy is essential to good data visualization"](https://towardsdatascience.com/why-visual-literacy-is-essential-to-good-data-visualization-5b9dffb5aa6f), he dives into the nuances of visual literacy and what the phrase even entails. I had never heard of visual literacy until reading this article and found the comparisons to music especially intruiging. Cooley explains how data can be used to build insight and from there, build full narratives and stories, just like a music note in a song. A topic he touched upon that I never stopped to think about more critically was the balance of truth and beauty that data visualists are constantly confronted with. The spectrum of truth and beauty is a tricky balance to achieve because although data visualists want to give the public the full story with unobstructed -- closer to raw -- data, nobody wants to exert themselves trying to interpret the visualization. However, when data visualists spend <i>too</i> much time and energy making the visual look aesthetically pleasing and artistic, all that creative pizazz obfuscates the true data. I certainly have noticed this in the past when certain data visualizations are overly interactive and sometimes headache-inducing because they're trying to be presented as pretty rather than straightforward. On the other end of the spectrum, I've definitely encountered data that is under-visualized and would require too much background knowledge on the topic which I didn't have in my toolbox.

This discussion on truth and beauty does make me think more about how the dynamic and maintaining this balance with data visuals changes over time. As the years go by, technology is advancing at an exponential rate and universal public access to said technology is skyrocketing as well. Will data visualists lean toward one side of the spectrum over the other in the future? With attention spans decreasing with each new generation, will data visualists need to compensate and represent data in a more simple and beautiful way so that the information can reach a larger demographic? In the process of that, will the narrative behind that data get lost in translation? This article made me think a lot about what it means for data to be presented in a smart and effective way, and Cooley brought in excellent insights on the topic.