---
layout: post
title:  "What Is the History of Books"
date:   "2022-12-4"
categories: jekyll update
---

## Reflection
Matthew Symonds and Earle Havens of <i>The Archaeology of Reading</i> wrote ["What is the History of Books?"](https://archaeologyofreading.org/historiography/) with the intention of posing the question of where books come from and how we've evolved to digital humanities today. The main focus of this article is the discussion of how our relationship with books has evolved. Back when the printing press was invented, more and more people of the European population were gaining access to influxes of information. American historian Elizabeth Eisenstein conducted a pivotal study called <i>The Printing Press as an Agent of Change</i>, published in 1979. In the study, Eisenstein describes how public knowledge via books was spreading to more people than there were literary elites and aristocrats in European society. One of the most notable lines that Symonds and Havens wrote in this article was, "As people read more for themselves than ever before, they also thought more for themselves." The printing press changed everything. When books first entered public circulation, everybody wanted to get their hands on them purely for the sake of consuming knowledge and new information. Although many people to annotate their margins when reading books today, when books first starting entering people's reach, reading was not a passive act. People would overflow the margins with personal thoughts and notions as they read. Examples of such decorated marginalia can be seen in William Sherman’s <i>Used Books: Marking Readers in Renaissance England (2008)</i>. 

The article also discusses "information overload" which is a term that describes when readers are approached with so much new knowledge on the page of a book that they take their thoughts to the marginalia. Symonds and Havens explain how digital humanities can be utilized to overcome "information overload" by recovering surviving marginalia from older texts. As we approach the terrifying era of post-print, historians can read "in-between the lines", so to speak, by analyzing and studying written margin notes after digitization. There could be ideas of value in those annotations that wouldn't normally be digitized beacuse they aren't part of the original text. Some questions cannot be sufficiently answered with just the original text alone, especially when trying to interpret and understand an information overload from the past. 

This article makes me think deeply about how corpuses of text can be interpreted in different ways and how later, in the post-print age, in what creative ways we can study historical texts beyond reading annotations. Books are versatile tools and art forms, and as we move toward total digitization, how can we keep the essence of books alive and relevant for deeper interpretation? How would books look in the dystopian future? Would our source of books end up being us only staring at a digital screen and never resorting back to paper books? If so, how can our thoughts and opinions about the text be captivated in history like those books with pen scribbles in the whitespaces from the Renaissance period? With the element of digitization, I think back to the part in this article that details how people were active readers when the printing press made waves. It seems like as time goes on, we read more and more passively. It only feels natural to move in that direction because more people read on kindles or iPads, or even just listen to audiobooks for the sake of convenience. With that, there isn't time or reason to jot down notes about consumed media since it's on a digital platform and not intentional like traditional pen and paper would be. The speed and convenience of technology may be hindering our ability to actively interpret texts and encouraging passivity.